<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/ontologies/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:wms="http://www.opengis.net/wms#"
      xmlns:iridl="http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/ontologies/iridl.owl#"
      xmlns:maproom="http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/ontologies/maproom.owl#"
      xmlns:term="http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/ontologies/iriterms.owl#"
      xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#"
      version="XHTML+RDFa 1.0"
      >
<head>
 <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
<title>Ingrid and OPeNDAP</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/uicore/uicore.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/localconfig/ui.css" />
<link rel="canonical" href="index.html" />
      <meta property="maproom:Sort_Id" content="z02" />
<link class="carryLanguage" rel="home" href="http://iri.columbia.edu/" title="IRI" />
<link class="carryLanguage" rel="home alternate" type="application/json" href="/localconfig/navmenu.json" />
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/uicore/icons/iri32.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="54x54" href="/uicore/icons/iriwh.png" />
<link rel="icon" href="/uicore/icons/iriwh.svg" sizes="any" type="image/svg+xml" />
<link rel="term:isDescribedBy" href="http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/ontologies/iridl.owl#climate" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/uicore/uicore.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/localconfig/ui.js"></script>
</head>
<body xml:lang="en">
<div class="controlBar">
           <fieldset class="navitem">
                <legend>Help Resources</legend> 
                      <a rev="section" class="navlink carryup carryLanguage" href="/dochelp/topics/">Topics</a>
            </fieldset> 
           <fieldset class="navitem"> 
                <legend>Topics</legend> 
                     <span class="navtext">Ingrid and OPeNDAP</span>
            </fieldset> 
 </div>
<div class="searchDescription">
<h1 align="center" property="term:title">Ingrid and OPeNDAP</h1>

<p>Ingrid is used to implement the IRI Climate Data Library.  There are
three major goals: helping users find suitable datasets, providing a
useful summary of the dataset once found, and helping users make use
of the data in that dataset.  INGRID uses an object-oriented
approach to create a WWW-accessible environment where datasets can be
found, accessed, viewed, and manipulated.
</p>
<p property="term:description">
Ingrid uses OPeNDAP to exchange data with itsself, get data from other
OPeNDAP servers, and send data to OPeNDAP clients.  While the implementation
does not depend on the OPeNDAP core, there have been no intended
extensions to the OPeNDAP protocol: all the uniquely Ingrid information
is encoded in the filename part of the URL, which by definition is
site dependent.
</p>
<p>
The server is designed to be a WWW resource: users can write their own
hypertext and simply link directly to data-based figures,
calculations, even data-manipulating tools.  Alternatively, datasets
and arbitrary subsets of datasets can be specified as urls for
web-aware tools, or can be downloaded in a variety of formats for use
in older tools.  While the dataset environment appears to be uniform,
the datasets are spread over a network of data servers and local
copies are updated automatically.  The Data Library is thus both a
member of and a prototype for the next generation of tools that
manipulate data and metadata directly from networks of dataset
servers.
</p>                                  
<p>
There are a number of current issues that OPeNDAP community can help address:
<ul>
<li>better data caching and transmission of update information needed
for better data caching </li>

<li>resolution of the conflict between clients that use name-mapping
vs clients that use GRID structures: what is a server to do? Can we
really set up structures to describe what is necessary to say about
our data?</li>

<li>standard description of data collections which are currently too
large for OPeNDAP but still considered by most catalogs as a single
entity (a half-century 24 member ensemble of GCM runs, six-hourly,
daily, monthly, for example).</li>

<li>standard description of available data manipulations</li>

</ul>
</p>
</div>
<div class="rightcol tabbedentries" about="/dochelp/topics/DODS/">
<dirlist>
<dt><a href="/dochelp/brief/">User Interface</a></dt>
<dd>user interface</dd>
<dt><a href="/dochelp/intro/design/">Design</a></dt>
<dd>technical details</dd>
</dirlist>
</div>
<div class="optionsBar">
<fieldset class="navitem" id="share"><legend>Share</legend></fieldset>
<fieldset class="navitem" id="contactus"></fieldset>
</div>
</body>
</html>
